Docs: How to integrate on CircleCI and Travis CI (#3124)
webhintio/hint: packages/hint/docs/user-guide/development-flow-integration/circleci.md

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->
# Using CircleCI and webhint

[CircleCI][] is a CI/CD service you can use to run webhint
to test your website.

> ## Locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Local testing
You can integrate `webhint` by adding it to the `package.json` of a Node project as shown in the "For Node projects" section below. If you are not using Node or don't want to modify your project's `package.json`, you can use the instructions in the "For other project types" section.
```

> ### Webhint is in the package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For Node projects
```

> Run in your project.

Reviewer: In your project, run:

> Run in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your project, run:
```

```bash
npm install hint --save--dev
```

In the file `package.json` add a new script `test-hint`:

```json5
...
"scripts": {
    ...
    "test-hint": "hint ./" // ./ or the path where the files to test are.
  }
...
```

Add the file `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:

```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:lts
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: npm install
      - run: npm run test-hint
```

> **Note:** In this case `hint` will use as default configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** By default, `hint` will use 
```

`configuration-development` if a `.hintrc` file is not present.

> ### Project in another language or not included in package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For other project types
```

> When your project is not a `nodejs` project or you just doesn't want to/can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project is not a Node project or you don't want to
```

> modify your `package.json` you can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modify your `package.json` file, you can add a `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Add a `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/python:latest-node
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: npm install hint --no-save
      - run: node node_modules/hint/dist/src/bin/hint.js ./ # ./ or the path where the files to test are.
```

> In this case, we need `nodejs` to be install in the image. For the built-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we need `nodejs` to be included in the Docker image. For the pre-built 
```

> images in circleci, you just need to add `-node` to the image tag, if you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI images, you just need to add `-node` to the image tag. If you are
```

using your own image, you need to update it to include `nodejs`. Once we have

> node in the image, we can install `hint` manually and run the scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node in the image, we can install `hint` manually and run the scan.
```

As in the previous example, the default configuration will be `configuration-development`.

## Online

> ### Webhint is in the package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For Node projects
```

> Run in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your project, run:
```

```bash
npm install hint --save--dev
```

In the file `package.json` add a new script `test-hint`:

```json5
...
"scripts": {
    ...
    "test-hint": "hint https://url-to-your-project" // ideally, this url will be to your staging/preproduction environment.
}
...
```

Add the file `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:

```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:lts-browsers
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      # Add the necessary steps to deploy your website.
      - run: npm install
      - run: npm run test
```

> **Note:** In this case `hint` will use as default configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** By default, `hint` will use 
```

`configuration-web-recommended` if a `.hintrc` file is not present.

> **Note:** `configuration-web-recommended` use by default the connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** By default, `configuration-web-recommended` uses the
```

> `puppeteer` which requires a "chromium" browser to work. In you are using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`puppeteer` connector, which requires a Chromium browser to work. If you are using
```

> a `circleci` built-in image, you just need to add `-browsers` to the tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a pre-built CircleCI image, you just need to add `-browsers` to the tag
```

> to have browsers installed. If you are using you custom image, you need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to have browsers installed. If you are using your own custom image, you need
```

> to install a chromium browser in your image first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to install a Chromium browser in your image first.
```

> ### Project in another language or hint not included in the package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For other project types
```

> When your project is not a `nodejs` project or you just doesn't want to/can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project is not a Node project or you don't want to
```

> modify your `package.json` you can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modify your `package.json`, you can
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Add the file `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:
```

```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/python:latest-node-browsers
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      # Add the necessary steps to deploy your website.
      - run: npm install hint --no-save
      - run: node node_modules/hint/dist/src/bin/hint.js https://url-to-your-project
```

The default configuration in this case will be `configuration-web-recommended`

As you can notice, if you need `nodejs` + browsers in your circleci image, you
need to add `-node-browsers` to the image tag. If you are using a custom image,
you will need to install node and a chromium browser in you image.

## Common

### Enabling telemetry

> 

Reviewer 2: Would a link to https://webhint.io/docs/user-guide/telemetry/summary/ suffice?

> 

Author: I think a link should be enough. I thought I added it initially but looks like I forgot 😢

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->
# Using CircleCI and webhint

[CircleCI][] is a CI/CD service you can use to run webhint
to test your website.

> ## Local testing

Reviewer 2: I find the term "Local" here a bit confusing since we're running in CI, not on a user's local machine.

@molant @hxlnt What do you think of using the header "Source code analysis" here instead of "Local testing" and "Live site analysis" later instead of "Online".

Author: I'm OK with that change. Can you please make a "suggestion" and I'll merge when/if @hxlnt gives the 👍?

> ## Local testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Source code analysis
```

jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:lts
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: npm install
      - run: npm run test-hint
```

**Note:** By default, `hint` will use
`configuration-development` if a `.hintrc` file is not present.

### For other project types

If your project is not a Node project or you don't want to
modify your `package.json` file, you can add a `.circleci/config.yml` to your project:

```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/python:latest-node
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: npm install hint --no-save
      - run: node node_modules/hint/dist/src/bin/hint.js ./ # ./ or the path where the files to test are.
```

In this case, we need `nodejs` to be included in the Docker image. For the pre-built
CircleCI images, you just need to add `-node` to the image tag. If you are
using your own image, you need to update it to include `nodejs`. Once we have
Node in the image, we can install `hint` manually and run the scan.

As in the previous example, the default configuration will be `configuration-development`.

> ## Online

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Live site analysis
```

    ```json
    …
    "scripts": {
        …
        "test-hint": "hint https://webhint.io --debug --tracking=on"
      },
    …
    ```

    or in your `.circleci/config.yml`:

    ```yml
    version: 2.1
    jobs:
      build:
        docker:
          - image: circleci/python:latest-node-browsers
        steps:
          - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
          # Add the necessary steps to deploy your website.
          - run: npm install hint --no-save
          - run: node node_modules/hint/dist/src/bin/hint.js https://url-to-your-project --tracking=on
    ```

2. By `env` variable: You need to configure the `env` variable `HINT_TRACKING` in
   `.circleci/config.yml`:

    ```yml
    version: 2.1
    jobs:
      build:
        docker:
          - image: circleci/node:lts-browsers
        steps:
          - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
          - run: echo 'export HINT_TRACKING="on"' >> $BASH_ENV
          - run: npm install
          - run: npm run test-hint
    ```

## Further configuration

In order to change the output, severity of the hints, etc. you will have to

> use your own `.hintrc` file. Please check the section [configuring webhint]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use your own `.hintrc` file. Please check the [configuring webhint] section
```

> use your own `.hintrc` file. Please check the section [configuring webhint]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use your own `.hintrc` file. Please check the [configuring webhint] section
```
